Default Icon; more or less according to decision. (#3624)
modelica/ModelicaSpecification: chapters/annotations.tex

Sub-connectors in a hierarchical connector are only shown when they can be connected to.
Non-connector components are only shown in the diagram layer.

\subsubsection{Default Outline for Missing Graphics}\label{default-outline-for-missing-graphics}

> If the icon of a class does not contain any graphical primitives (including inherited ones, and regardless of visibility; but excluding connectors) it is said to be missing graphics.

Reviewer: I would like a clarification of _regardless of visibility_.  Does it mean that you won't get an automatic icon even if all graphic primitives have `visible = false`?  I think that would be a useful rule, as it makes it possible to turn off the automatic icon if one only wants to see the connectors.

Author: Yes. Can add that in the non-normative section.

> If the icon of a class does not contain any graphical primitives (including inherited ones, and regardless of visibility; but excluding connectors) it is said to be missing graphics.
> If the icon of a class used in a diagram is missing graphics then tools shall show a tool-dependent outline of the extent of the component to improve usability.

Reviewer: Is it really necessary to introduce the concept of _icon missing graphics_?
```suggestion
If the icon of a component placed in a diagram layer does not contain any graphical primitives (including inherited ones, and regardless of visibility; but excluding connectors), tools shall show a tool-dependent rudimentary outline of the component's transformed \lstinline!extent!.

\begin{nonnormative}
The reason for making the tool-dependent outline rudimentary is to encourage the model developer to provide a proper icon.
\end{nonnormative}
```

> If the icon of a class used in a diagram is missing graphics then tools shall show a tool-dependent outline of the extent of the component to make improve usability.

Reviewer 2: "make improve" should just be "improve" I guess?

Author: Yes, was trying to write two different variants.

> If the icon of a class used in a diagram is missing graphics then tools shall show a tool-dependent outline of the extent of the component to make improve usability.

Author: ```suggestion
If the icon of a class used in a diagram is missing graphics then tools shall show a tool-dependent outline of the extent of the component to improve usability.
```

> The model with missing graphics should be updated if its icon is used in any diagram.

Reviewer: First it was the icon that was missing graphics.  Here it is the model.

I'm not sure how much we can state in the specification regarding the need to have an icon, especially considering that the library developer generally doesn't know how a model is used outside of the library.

Can't we instead say something based on the presence of connectors with placement on the icon?

Reviewer: Given the suggested non-normative explanation above, I suggest simply removing this sentence:
```suggestion
```

Sub-connectors in a hierarchical connector are only shown when they can be connected to.
Non-connector components are only shown in the diagram layer.

\subsubsection{Default Outline for Missing Graphics}\label{default-outline-for-missing-graphics}

> If the icon of a component placed in a diagram layer does not contain any graphical primitives (including inherited ones, and regardless of visibility; but excluding connectors), tools shall show a tool-dependent rudimentary outline of the component's transformed \lstinline!extent!.

Reviewer: This is where I'm looking for a clear normative formulation instead of the vague term _visibility_.  Could it be this simple?
```suggestion
If the icon of a component placed in a diagram layer does not contain any graphical primitives (including inherited ones, and regardless of \lstinline!visible!-attributes; but excluding connectors), tools shall show a tool-dependent rudimentary outline of the component's transformed \lstinline!extent!.
```

> \begin{nonnormative}
> The reason for making the tool-dependent outline rudimentary is to encourage the model developer to provide a proper icon.
> \end{nonnormative}

Author: ```suggestion
\begin{nonnormative}
The reason for making the tool-dependent outline rudimentary is to encourage the model developer to provide a proper icon.
Regardless of visibility imply that if the primitives have parameter-dependent visibility it will not switch to this default icon regardless of the parameter setting.
\end{nonnormative}
```

Author: I think this gives more background regarding "regardless of visibility".

Reviewer: Why exclude the simple constant case of `visible = false`?

Author: > Why exclude the simple constant case of `visible = false`?

I added that case as well.

Reviewer: OK.  Then I think that it is only this question that remains (quoting myself):
> Could we also make this more concretely related to `visible`, or are there additional mechanisms that should also be considered?

Reviewer: I was looking for a normative formulation in terms of `visible` if possible, or otherwise a normative explanation of what determining _visibility_ comes down to.

Author: Oh, I see. Is the new change clearer?

Reviewer: I think we need to start with the normative part, so I initiated another conversation there.

Sub-connectors in a hierarchical connector are only shown when they can be connected to.
Non-connector components are only shown in the diagram layer.

\subsubsection{Default Outline for Missing Graphics}\label{default-outline-for-missing-graphics}
If the icon of a component placed in a diagram layer does not contain any graphical primitives (including inherited ones, and regardless of \lstinline!visible!-attributes; but excluding connectors), tools shall show a tool-dependent rudimentary outline of the component's transformed \lstinline!extent!.

\begin{nonnormative}
The reason for making the tool-dependent outline rudimentary is to encourage the model developer to provide a proper icon.

> Regardless of \lstinline!visible!-attributes imply that all primitives are considered regardless of the value of their \lstinline!visible!-attribute.

Reviewer: Now that the normative rule is formulated in terms of the `visible`-attribute, I find this explanation redundant:
```suggestion
```

> Regardless of \lstinline!visible!-attributes imply that if the primitives have a parameter-dependent value for \lstinline!visible! or even \lstinline!visible = false! it will not switch to the default icon regardless of the parameter setting.

Reviewer: It's weird to include the constant `false` case in this sentence (also fix grammar):
```suggestion
That \lstinline!visible!-attributes are not regaded implies that if the primitives have a parameter-dependent value for \lstinline!visible!, the display will not switch to the default icon regardless of the parameter setting.
```

Author: I don't want to explicitly add that work-around in the specification, and could just change "parameter-dependent" to "possibly parameter-dependent", and then remove "visible=false" as it is clearly covered by "possibly parameter-dependent".

Reviewer: I think that _possibly parameter-dependent_ makes it hard to finish the sentence; _regardless of the possibly parameter-dependent setting_ doesn't read very nice.

To me, the part about an icon only showing connectors doesn't have to be seen as a workaround for a problem with the specification; I prefer to see it as a useful application of the rule about non-visible primitives.  It's not a big deal what we say here, but with my concerned colleague in mind I would prefer to at least have a poll to refer to if we end up not explaining this use case.

Author: I have now shortened it as much as possible; I realized that since we don't care for the value of the attribute we don't have to consider whether it is parameter-dependent or not.
